JAKE: We're going to another one
of our HTTP203 microtask speed
runs.
Right?
SURMA: Yes.
Oh, now it's
microtask speed runs?
JAKE: Oh, I don't know.
And we haven't--
SURMA: We've got to work
on the branding, mate.
JAKE: I think micro task is
a good brand name for it.
Right?
SURMA: Yeah.
JAKE: The idea is
you're going to explain
a thing in two minutes.
SURMA: Yup.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
JAKE: Go.
SURMA: Broadcast channel.
JAKE: Broadcast channel.
SURMA: Yeah.
JAKE: OK.
So it's-- it's-- oh.
Hang on.
Broadcast is a web RTC.
You're gonna get
in trouble here.
SURMA: No, no, no.
We're in a different area.
It's In API.
It also has been around
for quite a time,
similar to workers.
But it doesn't have
as wide support,
sadly, because it's
not been used a lot.
But it's really cool.
JAKE: So a type of worker?
SURMA: No.
So-- but it has to do
with workers in a way.
So a broadcast
channel is basically
a post-message channel
associated with a name.
So I can say, new
broadcast channel Surma.
And now I get a post-message
endpoint for the name Surma.
And any other site-- every
other realm from my origin,
like my workers,
my service worker,
all the other tabs that
are open for my site--
can now communicate through
this same message channel
because they know the same name.
JAKE: So it's like pub/sub.
SURMA: Yes.
JAKE: But across
tabs and across--
SURMA: Yes.
And you don't have to
worry about knowing which
tabs are open, do I
have a soft server,
how many workers are there.
It just works.
And then it's brilliant, because
what it allows you to do is
to write little pieces of
code-- little modules--
that just hook up to
this broadcast channel
and start working.
JAKE: So previously you would
have to use shared workers
to be the sort of middleman.
SURMA: Yeah.
And have some kind of management
telling you this module
is now here.
Do you want to talk to it?
And now you just have the
central unit in the platform.
And whenever a module
is finished loading,
it just hooks itself
up to the thing.
And now you can talk to it.
And then it's
absolutely amazing,
as I've recently discovered,
for code splitting.
Because you just load
things whenever you need,
and they start working.
You don't have to actually
statically import.
You just dynamically import.
JAKE: So what kind
of messages are you
sending through this then?
SURMA: So I have like a
cache manager in there.
I have things that do my
color scheme adjustments.
My animator.
All these things are now just
like little tiny independent
JavaScript modules.
And they use broadcast
channel to talk to a worker,
to my mainframe.
JAKE: So one page
receives an update.
And it can just tell all the
times, I've got this data.
You don't need to
go and re-fetch it.
SURMA: Yeah.
JAKE: It's there.
Brilliant.
And what browsers?
SURMA: No.
JAKE: Chrome and Firefox.
Brilliant.
There we go.
SURMA: I like that
you knew that.
[AHEM]
[UNPLEASANT THROAT NOISE]
JAKE: How was that
for you, mate?
Was that-- right in the ears.